Israeli Airstrike Kills Seven World Central Kitchen Aid Workers in Gaza; IDF: 'Tragic Incident'Three of the dead have been identified, including two foreign aid workers and their Palestinian driver; WCK: 'Humanitarian aid workers and civilians should never be a target.' IDF: conducting review 'to understand the circumstances of this tragic incident'An apparent Israeli airstrike killed seven aid workers with the World Central Kitchen charity, including at least four international workers and their Palestinian driver late Monday, hours after the group brought in a new shipload of food by a maritime route the United States has hoped would be an alternative lifeline for northern Gaza, isolated and pushed to the brink of famine by Israel's offensive.Footage showed the bodies of the five dead at Al-Aqsa Martyrs Hospital in the central Gaza town of Deir al-Balah. Several of them wore protective gear with the charity's logo. Staff showed the passports of three of the dead – British, Australian and Polish.Three of the dead have been identified as, Lalzawmi Zomi Frankcom, from Australia, Damian Rafal Sobol, from Poland, and Saif Essam Abu Taha, a Palestinian. A fourth has been identified as from the U.K. but has yet to be named.The Israeli military has expressed "sincere sorrow" over the deaths of seven aid workers killed in a strike on Gaza "as they fulfilled the vital mission of bringing food to people in need." IDF Chief of Staff Herzl Halevi told the U.S. military's head of Central Command, Michael Kurilla, that the IDF's 'highest ranks' would investigate the incidentRear Adm. Daniel Hagari, the top military spokesman, said Tuesday that the IDF, "as a professional military committed to international law", is committed to examining its operations "thoroughly and transparently."World Central Kitchen, the charity founded by celebrity chef José Andrés, said it was aware of the reports and would "share more information when we have gathered all the facts."Hagari added that he spoke with Andres and expressed the IDF's "deepest condolences ... to the families and the entire World Central Kitchen family" as well as expressing "sincere sorrow to our allied nations who have been doing and continue to do so much to assist those in need. "According to Hagar, the Israeli army is reviewing the incident at the highest levels and that an investigation by an "independent, professional and expert body" will be launched that "will help us reduce the risk of such an event from occurring again.""This is a tragedy. Humanitarian aid workers and civilians should NEVER be a target. EVER," WCK spokeswoman Linda Roth said in a statement.On Tuesday morning, World Central Kitchen posted a statement on their website that they were "devastated to confirm seven members of our team have been killed in an IDF strike in Gaza.""Despite coordinating movements with the IDF, the convoy was hit as it was leaving the Deir al-Balah warehouse, where the team had unloaded more than 100 tons of humanitarian food aid brought to Gaza on the maritime route," the statement said."This is not only an attack against WCK, this is an attack on humanitarian organizations showing up in the most dire of situations where food is being used as a weapon of war. This is unforgivable," said World Central Kitchen CEO Erin Gore.According to the statement, "the seven killed are from Australia, Poland, United Kingdom, a dual citizen of the U.S. and Canada and Palestine."The charity also said that they were "pausing our operations immediately in the region. We will be making decisions about the future of our work soon."Mahmoud Thabet, a Palestinian Red Crescent paramedic who was on the team that brought the bodies to the hospital, told The Associated Press the workers were in a three-car convoy that was crossing out of northern Gaza when an Israeli missile hit. Thabet said he was told by WCK staff the team had been in the north coordinating distribution of the newly arrived aid and were heading back to Rafah in the south.The source of fire could not be independently confirmed.Upon his release from the Hadassah Hospital, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu commented on the incident, and said that it was a "tragic case of our forces unintentionally hitting innocent people in the Gaza Strip. This happens in war, and we will investigate it to the end. We are in contact with the governments involved, and we will do everything to insure that this does not happen again."Three aid ships from Cyprus arrived earlier Monday carrying some 400 tons of food and supplies organized by the charity and the United Arab Emirates — the group's second shipment after a pilot run last month. The Israeli military was involved in coordinating both deliveries.World Central Kitchen board member Robert Egger and the media reported that the Australian killed in Monday night's strike was 44-year-old Zomi Frankcom from Melbourne.Australia's Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said it was urgently seeking to confirm reports of an Australian death. The department said in a statement: "We have been clear on the need for civilian lives to be protected in this conflict.""This is a human tragedy that should never have occurred, that is completely unacceptable and Australia will seek full and proper accountability," Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese said at a news conference on Tuesday.Albanese said innocent civilians and those doing humanitarian work needed to be protected and reiterated his call for a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza along with more aid to help those suffering from "tremendous deprivation."Adrienne Watson, a spokesperson for the U.S. National Security Council, wrote on social media that "We are heartbroken and deeply troubled by the strike that that killed @WCKitchen aid workers in Gaza. Humanitarian aid workers must be protected as they deliver aid that is desperately needed, and we urge Israel to swiftly investigate what happened."WCK founder Jose Andres said that the organization "lost several of our sisters and brothers in an IDF air strike in Gaza. I am heartbroken and grieving for their families and friends and our whole WCK family. These are people…angels…I served alongside in Ukraine, Gaza, Turkey, Morocco, Bahamas, Indonesia. They are not faceless…they are not nameless. The Israeli government needs to stop this indiscriminate killing. It needs to stop restricting humanitarian aid, stop killing civilians and aid workers, and stop using food as a weapon. No more innocent lives lost. Peace starts with our shared humanity. It needs to start now."Poland's foreign minister asked the Israeli ambassador in Warsaw for "urgent explanations" about the circumstances of the strike that killed a Polish aid worker.Spanish Prime Minister Pedro Sanchez said that Israel must clarify the circumstances surrounding the aid workers deaths.Video obtained by Reuters showed paramedics moving bodies into a hospital and displaying the passports of three of those killed.Andres started the WCK in 2010 by sending cooks and food to Haiti after an earthquake. The organization has since delivered food for communities hit by natural disasters, refugees at the U.S. border, healthcare workers during the COVID pandemic and people in conflicts in Ukraine and Gaza.The IDF issued a statement saying that it has launched "an in-depth investigation at the highest levels, in order to ascertain all the circumstances of the incident.""The IDF makes great efforts to facilitate the safe passage of humanitarian aid and works in full cooperation and coordination with WCK to support their efforts to provide food and humanitarian assistance to residents of the Gaza Strip," the statement added.In a statement, Hamas said the attack on the WCK staff by Israel aimed to "terrorize" workers of international humanitarian agencies and deter them from pursuing their missions.Earlier Monday, in a separate incident, an Israeli soldier opened fire on a WCK truck driver.